# Setting up a collaborative space

## Learning objectives
* Understand the purpose and use of the wiki
	* Create initial project description (wiki)
* Understand use and importance of subfolder/subcomponent organization
	* Add components to a project
* Understand how to set up a centralizer location for project storage/management
	* Add collaborators to project
	* Connect an add-on to the OSF (github)

## Section Outline
* Set up study example & break room into ‘collaborative groups’ for project creation
	* 3 person groups, each working on creating one OSF project for the three of them

For most of the workshop, you’ll all be working in groups of three, pretending to be little research groups with a PI, graduate student, and research assistant. Collectively, you’ll work on building an open, transparent small scale research project from start to finish. To help with this, and because people are from a variety of different scientific disciplines here, we’re going to be using a set of example materials so everyone will be working with the same materials. These materials are from the 2012 Annual National Election Survey in the US.

I emailed all the materials to you this morning. If you open up the filed called, ‘Questionnaire’, you’ll notice that there are about 12 different questions that were asked of respondents (this is a very small subsample of the questions from the actual survey). So, over the course of the workshop, what is going to happen is that each group will decide amongst themselves, from the available materials, what there research question will be, the variables they want to use, the analyses they want to do, how they want to build and structure there project, and how open they would like the project to be at the end. 

To start off, lets count off in 3s. If you don’t have a computer with you, say ’skip’ and look on with one of the groups on either side of you. These will be your groups. All the 1s will be the PIs, all the 2s with be graduate student collaborators, and all the 3s will be research assistants. Don’t worry too much about your role, it’s not going to have a huge impact, but if you feel uncomfortable in your role and you want to switch with someone else in your group that is fine.
  
	
* Describe what a ‘project’ on the OSF can be and create one for example
	* Project can be a: Lab group, organization, grant, line of research, individual study;
		* it’s basically the top level of nesting, you can nest as many things under it as you like

So, first things first, we need to go to the OSF and create our first project. A ‘project’ on the site can be anything: a lab group, an organization, a grant, a line of research, and individual experiment, etc. When you initially create a ‘project’, basically you can think about this as just the top level of a nested structure. You’ll be able to nest as many things under it later as you like. 

* Person A create a project for the group

Since we don’t have any projects yet, and we’re only going to be ‘conducting’ one experiment. Lets just create a project for that one experiment. If you are the PI in your group, if you could click on the ‘create project’ button, and give the project whatever name you like. *(insert screenshot here)* You can also give it a short description if you want, but you don’t have to. There will be a space later to add a longer description. Then, create the project. 

	
* Orient attendees to the project overview page (title, wiki, file tree, privacy setting, GUID)
	* describe and point out main features/state of project upon creation
		* Project page has GUID that you can use to direct others to the project
			* have person B try the link, see that they can’t see it
		* Project default to privates so only collaborators can see it
		* File tree: place where you can upload basically any type of file, with size limit
			* we’ll go over ways to give structure to this area and to deal with size limits later on
* Set up collaborative space
	* Person A adds people B & C to the project as contributors
		* note contributor permissions & non-bibliographic options
	* point out autogenerated citation which now has all collaborators
* Commenting functionality
		* have participants discuss using comments what they want their research question to be
* Create a wiki
	* Person B starts, person A & C add content 
		* research question & hypothesis to start out with
* Add structure to the project
	* Explain components vs. folders and demo making one versus the other
		* components have all the same functionality as projects (wikis, their own contributor settings, their own public/project settings)
		* folders are just ways to organize files, have no other functionality
	* Have participants collectively create structure for their project however they like
* Have someone connect and add-on (github or dropbox)
	* other participants make edits to content in those add-ons
